### Task 1: Introduction
In this room i learned to understand what information should be collected during an email analysis, learn about tools for email investigation, explore IP and URL analysis, investigate phishing cases.

### Task 2: Identifying Artifacts
When analyzing suspicious email, the first goal is to collect key artifacts that can help determine the legitimacy of the email.

**Header Artifacts**: sender, sender's IP, email subject, receipient, reply-to email and date & time.
**Body Analysis**: URLs & hyperlinks, attachment names and attachment hash.

### Task 3: Email Header Analysis
Some of the key information we need to collect can be viewed directly within an email or web client, such as Gmail or Yahoo!. However, other details, such as the sender’s IP address and Reply-To information, can only be obtained from the email header.

**Mail Header Analysis**
* *Messageheader*, a Google Admin Toolbox, helps analyze email headers. Simply paste the full header into the tool to extract key details (IP address, routing path)

**IP and URL Reputation Analysis**
* *IPinfo:* a simple and effective tool for gathering information about an IP address. By entering an IP, we can quickly view details such as its geographic location and associated organization.
* *URLScan.io:* a tool that enables analysts to safely investigate websites without visiting them directly. By submitting a URL, the service simulates a real user browsing session and records all activity generated by the page. It also captures a screenshot of the site and provides insight into its behavior, helping analysts quickly identify suspicious or potentially malicious content.
* *Talos IP & Domain Reputation Center:* a threat intelligence tool from Cisco that enables analysts to assess the reputation of IP addresses, domains, and networks. By submitting an indicator, you can quickly assess whether it has been associated with malicious activity and view its classification.


### Task 4:Email Body Analysis 
This is typically where the malicious payload is delivered, either as a hyperlink designed to lure users to a phishing site or as an attachment intended to compromise the system.

**Mail Body Analysis**
* *URL extraction tool:* These tools let us paste raw email content and automatically parse all embedded links, saving time and reducing the risk of missing hidden or obfuscated URLs.
* If email contains an attachment, it may be tempting to download it directly using the email client. The attachment where we analyze should be downloaded in a controlled environment (VMs or sandbox) to reduce the risk of accidental execution. Once safely obtain, we can use tools lik *sha256sum* command in a Linux environment to generate a hash value for further analysis and reputation checks.
* Once we received the hash value, sites like the *Talos IP & Domain Reputation Center* can analyze the hash value.
* *VirusTotal:* a tool that allows analysts to check the reputation of files, URLs, IP addresses and domain, use data from dozens of security vendors.

### Task 5: Malware Sandboxes
We can use online tools and services known as malware sandboxes, which allow files to be uploaded and analyzed in a controlled environment.

* **ANY.RUN:**  an interactive malware sandbox that allows analysts to safely execute and observe suspicious files and URLs in real time.
* **Hybrid Analysis:**  a free malware analysis sandbox that allows analysts to upload and examine suspicious files in a controlled environment. It provides detailed insights into file behavior, including system changes, network activity, and indicators of compromise, helping analysts better understand the potential impact of a malicious file.
* **JOESandbox:** It performs both static and dynamic analysis on suspicious files and URLs. It generates comprehensive reports that highlight behavior, indicators of compromise, and threat classifications.

### Task 6: Using PhishTool
It is designed for security professionals across multiple disciplines. PhishTool automates much of the manual work involved in analyzing suspicious emails. 

### Task 7: Your Account is on Hold
In this scenario, i act as a level 1 SOC analyst. As the first line of defense, i have to identify phishing and spam emails reported by end users. The objective is to carefully review each email, extract key indicators, and identify any signs of malicious activity.

1. I analyze the *Phish3Case1.eml* file, and identified the reputable brand that the email try to impersonate.
2. I analyze the email header, and found out who is the intended recipient for this message.
3. Continue analyze the email using Thunderbird via *View* -> *Message Source*, Found the receiver IP address for further investigation.
4. Identified and found the *Return-Path* domain below the *Received From* IP address.
5. Copy Link Location to view the shortened URL from the button attached in the email

### Task 8: Update Payment Details
In this task, i investigated a malicious attachment using ANYRUN.

1. Idenitfied the suspected phishing email on the right side of ANYRUN
2. Found the name of the PDF attachment in the report
3. Click on the PDF name and select more info to find the SHA256 hash for the PDF file
4. Click on the more info, then to connection tab to find the associated IP address with the process *AcroRd32.exe*

### Task 9: Excel Executable
I continue my investigation using ANYRUN, focusing on a different sandbox analysis of a suspected phishing attachment. Review the execution results to identify notable behaviors, including process activity, network connections, and any indicators of compromise.

1. Identified as a malicious phishing email on the right side of ANYRUN
2. Identified the file name and click on the file name to find the SHA256 hash value
3. Check out the ANYRUN text report, navigate to 'Network Activity' section, then found the IP address associated with the malicious domain.
4. Identified the vulnerability tag on top of the text report.






